---
title: Usage
description: All usage options available in Vue Split Panel
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-align-horizontal-justify-center
---

## Anatomy

The splitter component is rendered as a single Vue component with two slots, one for each panel.

::code-preview

  :::split-panel{class="w-full"}
  #start
  ::::div{class="h-16 bg-orange-50"}
  Panel A
  ::::

  #end
  ::::div{class="h-16 bg-blue-50"}
  Panel B
  ::::
  :::

#code
```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { SplitPanel } from '@directus/vue-split-panel';
import '@directus/vue-split-panel/index.css';
</script>

<template>
  <SplitPanel>
    <template #start>
      <div class="h-16 bg-orange-50">Panel A</div>
    </template>
    
    <template #end>
      <div class="h-16 bg-blue-50">Panel A</div>
    </template>
  </SplitPanel>
</template>
```

::

## API Reference

### Model

::field-group
  ::field{name="size" type="number"}
  The current size of the start panel.
  ::
::

### Props

::field-group
  ::field{name="orientation" type="'horizontal' | 'vertical'"}
    Set the rendering orientation.  
    Defaults to `'horizontal'`
  ::

  ::field{name="direction" type="'ltr' | 'rtl'"}
    Sets the panels text direction.  
    Defaults to `'ltr'`
  ::

  ::field{name="primary" type="'start' | 'end'"}
    If no primary panel is designated, both panels will resize equally.
  ::

  ::field{name="dividerHitArea" type="string"}
    A CSS size to define the hitbox area around the divider slot.  
    Defaults to `'12px'`
  ::
  
  ::field{name="sizeUnit" type="'%' | 'px'"}
    Whether `size`, `minSize`, `maxSize`, and `collapseThreshold` are configured in percentages (0-100) or pixel values.  
    Defaults to `'%'`
  ::
  
  ::field{name="disabled" type="boolean"}
    Disable the manual resizing/collapsing of the panels.  
    Defaults to `false`
  ::
  
  ::field{name="minSize" type="number"}
    Minimum allowed size of the primary panel. Requires `primary` to be set.  
    Defaults to `false`
  ::

  ::field{name="maxSize" type="number"}
    Maximum allowed size of the primary panel. Requires `primary` to be set.  
    Defaults to `false`
  ::

  ::field{name="collapsible" type="boolean"}
    Whether to allow the primary panel to be collapsed on enter key on divider or when the collapse threshold is met.  
    Defaults to `false`
  ::
  
  ::field{name="collapseThreshold" type="number"}
    How far to drag beyond the minSize to collapse/expand the primary panel.  
  ::
::

